docs/guides-stm32/lego-component-build-guide.md, before:

> [!Warning|style:callout]
> Please understand that modifying your coffee machine involves working with potentially lethal mains level voltage. Do not undertake this project if this makes you uncomfortable. Understanding & utilizing safe electrical practices is critical to your safety and safely completing this project. Only start working on your machine while it's completely disconnected from the mains power socket. By agreeing to follow the below guide, you agree that the authors cannot be deemed responsible for any of the damage you induce to your house appliances, yourself, your cat, your friend, or your gold fish. It will be entirely your fault!

This is a guide on how to assemble the Gaggiuino component build into the 3D printed housing.

## General Install Info

<details>
<summary><b>Component prep</b> <i>(Click to expand)</i></summary>

It is recommended to remove pins on the dimmer and thermocouple interface boards for the smallest, best connection. If you’d prefer to not do this in later steps you can solder wires to the pins and heat shrink over them.
An easy way to remove header pins is to cut the plastic linkage between each pin with snips, then de-solder the pins individually. Solder wick or a solder sucker can help get the through holes nice and clean.

<img height="150" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652146-fc29d237-0d93-42c4-861e-bc928f1411e9.png">

<img height="150" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652214-fc0e0670-4cf7-4ad2-9bcc-ea8c3f1cf3a4.png">

<img height="150" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652260-bdcd3e94-a3c6-4831-bf13-34b99d6514b2.png">

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Soldering</b> <i>(Click to expand)</i></summary>

?> Additional information can be found in [Soldering Recommendations](/learning/learning-sources.md#soldering)

**Expansion Board Soldering** 

If necessary, solder female headers and screw terminals to the nano expansion board. Make sure the headers and terminals are flush to the board. 

Bad:

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652382-dff7fc6f-ac02-494a-a506-9d4a22fbb792.png">

Acceptable:

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652433-0c49b699-9370-4639-8b9a-b78eb15b1948.png">

**STM32 Soldering**
Solder header pins to the Blackpill. Make sure the plastic linkage is flush with the board when soldering, and make sure all solder joints are properly reflowed. 

Bad:

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652496-980a3551-d6f9-44b4-91f7-3b5944996c51.png">

Acceptable:

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652544-adf88443-8a51-4836-80ee-97c130007bf3.png">

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Screw Terminals and Crimping</b> <i>(Click to expand)</i></summary>

Crimp ferrules are not required within the housing, but are a good idea for non-soldered component connections such as to the screw terminals on the expansion board, dimmer, and snubber to avoid stray wires. Make sure they are small enough to go into the screw terminals – 22AWG is possible, but 24-26AWG is much easier to crimp and fit in the terminals. 

!>Do **not** tin (solder) wires that will be crimped or clamped into screw terminals.

**No Crimp Examples**
Bad (exposed wire):

<img width="275" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653168-26f72fb8-7998-4cea-bebf-a13f37bd55a1.png">

Bad (stray wire):

<img width="275" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653201-b4c2b2fb-56f5-4a80-b5f3-3e0ab329d52f.png">

Acceptable:

<img width="275" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653247-1101c113-21f4-4796-8fd0-8e62d65841a8.png">

**Crimp Examples**
Acceptable (shielded):

<img width="275" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653300-d95006c8-3f17-4a3a-8f0d-b682ec9a5066.png">

Acceptable (unshielded):

<img width="275" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653338-3e47c284-f51a-4ff8-b2f5-3f9db7a5b45a.png">

Make sure unshielded crimped wires are inserted into the terminal such that no bare metal is outside of the terminal housing (red wire: good, black wire: barely acceptable):

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653388-3bf48014-8de2-40b0-898a-e57918ff4925.png">

**Crimping Outside of the Housing**

6.3 mm spade connectors are used for integration (connecting the assembled housing to the espresso machine). Molex's [TBO-Quality Crimp Handbook](https://github.com/Loogl3/gaggiuino.github.io/files/11400156/tbo.quality.crimp.handbook.pdf) is an excellent resource. Sections 6 and 7 contain information that applies to most crimped connections.

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Expansion Board Compatibility </b> <i>(Click to expand)</i></summary>

Ensure your expansion board circuitry looks like the bottom left (green) and not the bottom right (blue). The bottom right (blue) will not work correctly with the standard pindefs (the two circled pins in yellow are marked `GND` on the reverse and are both connected to the ground plane and each other), so it is advised for most people to purchase the board from the BOM that looks like the green expansion board. 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2452284/204672901-ac1a89d9-cbf2-4367-9196-e1a74fbce7dd.png">

If you receive an expansion board with this connection between two pins it will have the same problem as the blue board (two sets of pins are connected to each other). This can be fixed by cutting the trace. 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2452284/208331321-cef4d700-b961-4725-9cf1-f99202f1785a.jpg">

If you receive an expansion board with a linked ground plane then you'll need to cut the plane in two (likely on both sides of the board). It is recommended to not cut through the screw holes as that may allow a screw to reconnect the planes. 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236353796-18f8c699-e251-4df1-bb13-56b204afd832.png">

</details>

>

# Fit Check
Perform a fit check in the housing of all your components. Make sure the lid closes with no interference.
Note: you can use strip board for power distribution (cut for 6x5 usable points), Wago connectors or soldering wires to each other (provided heat shrink is applied for cover) are also acceptable options.

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652610-4b63d97b-90fd-43b1-b37f-a71ad0523008.png">

>

# External Wire Lengths

You'll use these later on. The table is located by the schematic for ease of linking and jumping back and forth during the build.

!> Wire cut lengths to connect the housing components to the espresso machine were added by request and are the length for a typical install in a GC or GCP plus a small margin.  
**Verifying wire length in your machine is recommended.** 

Component                                      |Colors                  |Gauge|Length                        
-----------------------------------------------|------------------------|:---:|------------------------------
[Screen](#screen)                              |Black, Yellow, Blue, Red|22-26|400 mm *(600 mm if crimping JST)*
[SSR](#ssr)                                    |Black                   |22   |530 mm
[SSR](#ssr)                                    |Yellow                  |22   |450 mm
[Switches](#switches)                          |Black, Yellow, Blue     |22   |600 mm
*Switch Jumper*                                |*Black*                 |*22* |*50 mm (used during machine install)*
[PSU](#psu)                                    |Black, White            |22   |60 mm
[Snubber-Relay](#snubber-relay-and-dimmer)     |Black, Red              |22   |100 mm
[Relay-Dimmer](#snubber-relay-and-dimmer)      |Black                   |22   |50 mm
[Relay (NO)](#snubber-relay-and-dimmer)        |Red                     |22   |250 mm
[Dimmer (Out, N-In)](#snubber-relay-and-dimmer)|Red, White              |22   |250 mm
[Dimmer (L-In)](#snubber-relay-and-dimmer)     |Black                   |22   |600 mm

>

# Schematic
 
Trust the schematic if you’re confused on a step or there appears to be a difference between an image and the schematic. You can use 22-26AWG wires for LV wiring unless otherwise noted; see the schematic and table for permissible wire gauges.

<img width="800" alt="image" src="schematics/stm32-comp-build.png">

# LV Wiring

The next steps describe the process of wiring the components together. The guide will show the component power wiring first followed by the signal wiring, but it can be done in whatever order you like. 

## Power wiring 
If using a strip board it is recommended to use an arrangement like this with two rows of 5V and two rows of 5V GND (0 VDC). 
Have the wires from the PSU go in through from the top, then fold over underneath and solder to connect the 2 rails.

<img width="250" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652856-028d0570-1736-4715-b6be-a3efb7325813.png">

<img width="250" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652920-b17579ce-f9d9-4be0-991a-668df15f95a4.png">

Measure distance to components in the housing, cut wires to length plus ~1 cm, then solder. 

!> Do not solder in the housing, it will melt. A “helping hand tool” or soldering vice is very helpful.

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653005-8bffe9c8-1967-461d-a163-9a130534e0d0.png">

>[!Note]
>Once power wiring is complete I recommend using a multimeter to check resistance between 5V and 5V GND (0 VDC) It should be extremely high or not readable. If you are getting a resistance reading under 10 kOhm it's likely you have a short (solder flux, solder pad, solder ball, wire whisker, etc.) that needs to be fixed.

Now that power wires have been added we’ll begin adding signal wires per the schematic. Just like with the power wires, measure length in the housing, then remove from housing to solder. A few notes:
1. Make sure to route the wires before measuring. There is not enough clearance for wires to go over the Blackpill, they must go around. 
2. Up to you whether you cut the pressure transducer cable shorter. Option to cut it down to about 12 in / 30 cm for my GC, but you may want it longer depending on your specific machine. 

Here’s a pic partway through the wiring process:

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653439-4aa95ae9-e234-406e-a38d-0b3cdf2a377a.png">

## ADS Board
Here are a few details on wiring the ADS

>[!Note]
> I wired power/ground first and ensured the ADDR wire was bent enough to have clearance to solder SCL and SDA connections later. You may want to solder SCL and SDA first.

Connect G to ADDR like this: 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653056-184db336-120e-49d9-95d9-84c5103c3227.png">

Wiring the pull-up 5V to A1, A2, and A3 is optional, but easy. Just make sure that you have extra wire length to push through, bend over, and solder as shown (upper left):

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653104-486b571e-866d-4e5a-95c6-88f0271e25e3.png">

## Screen

[Measure and cut](#external-wire-lengths) wires for the screen connection. Cut the DuPont connectors off the JST-XH pigtail included with the screen, solder like colors, and cover with heat shrink so you end up with a 600 mm long screen cable. 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/235807077-38f3fe70-f784-47da-aab0-3d9dbfc4114c.png">

Make sure that the wire colors connecting to the screen line up with the schematic. If necessary, swap connector positions to correct. A small screwdriver can be used to release the tabs holding the pins in place. They can then be easily removed and swapped.

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/235808221-fdfc62a2-9d1f-44fa-b62b-ec041f7fc74f.png">

?> The pins will need to be removed from the connector to pass the wires through the back vent slot - ensuring the wire colors line up before testing makes that process much simpler.

Solder the power wires to the stripboard and connect the communication wires to the expansion board per the schematic.

## SSR

[Measure and cut](#external-wire-lengths) the wires for the SSR. Solder to the stripboard and connect to the expansion board per the schematic.  
Once you're done the assembly should look like this.

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236147555-e463242b-1aa4-4639-8efb-f789e5074b9b.png">

## Switches

[Measure and cut](#external-wire-lengths) the wires for the switch connections. Solder to the stripboard and connect to the expansion board per the schematic.  
Once you're done the assembly should look like this.

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236129109-bfbb6880-8942-4009-a386-3d2be94ca1c1.png">

# Programming/Flashing

!> Do not flash the Blackpill while powering the system over USB-C.  

Flash the Blackpill using the ST-Link (connect SWDIO, GND, SWCLK, and 3.3V* - see [Prerequisites](prereq/prerequisites.md) for details). 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/235833233-5d8d99d3-665a-40d2-b215-489295c49480.png">

Flash the Nextion with the applicable nextion-*-lcd.tft on an otherwise-empty ≤32 GB FAT32 microSD card.  

Power for flashing the Nextion may be provided through the USB-C port on the Blackpill so long as you are using a USB power adapter that will supply 4.6-5.2 VDC (don't use a battery bank or PC USB 2.0 ports for power).  

?> More stable voltage can be provided by using the 120 VAC PSU and piggybacking off of the Gaggia power switch ([example here](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/235836724-71394491-c47a-46ed-920b-79ced184cc16.png)), however this is unnecessary for flashing and testing at this point so long as the voltage provided through the USB-C port is in range.  
*If you wish to power the system through the 120 VAC PSU to flash the Blackpill then do **not** connect 3.3V to the ST-Link unless you're sure you do not have a knock-off/clone ST-Link.

Wait for the Nextion to show the "Update Successed! (sic)" message, turn off power, and then remove the microSD card.

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236127637-fb83e05e-06d0-4a2f-b6e8-cdf48a36a077.png">

# Component test

>[!Tip]
>The system will not initialize if the ToFnLED board was enabled in the software but isn't plugged in

Make sure the Blackpill, thermocouple, pressure transducer, screen, SSR, switch wires, and ToFnLED if defined are connected and power on the system once again. If all is successful you should:
- see a build number during boot (good Blackpill-Nextion communication)
- hear the relay click for boiler fill
- see a temperature reading on the screen that changes when heat is applied to the thermocouple
- see the SSR light turn on if the temperature is below the setpoint (it will flash if temp is close to setpoint)
- see a pressure value of 0.0 bar with no deviation
- *not* see the steam temp as the target (if you do then there's a short to ground, likely through the expansion board)

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236076956-36ab8d35-6b5d-476e-84d2-d2e5097fafb1.png">

>

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236077124-e318b230-908e-4715-8810-a819f260c04f.png">

Recommendation: zip-tie the cable strain relief at this point so the risk of stressing the connections in the housing is reduced. 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236130002-977f47b6-c742-4f66-b240-15cbd5664a7d.png">

>

# HV Wiring

?>The images in this section have the LV wire connections moved out of the shot and the thermocouple disconnected for a cleaner view of the HV wiring.

## PSU

[Measure and cut](#external-wire-lengths) the wires for the PSU and solder to the AC in landings. It is helpful for wire routing to have the black wire closer to the snubber and white wire closer to the outside because you'll be connecting it to the snubber as seen below, but "polarity" technically doesn't matter. This is the last bit of soldering for the housing!

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/238552129-b682bc54-3855-48ba-af14-d60d4adca361.png">

## Snubber, Relay, and Dimmer

[Measure and cut](#external-wire-lengths) the wires for the snubber-relay, relay-dimmer, relay, and dimmer connections. 
As shown above, the snubber wires get routed in the channel under the PSU. Here is the full set of housing HV wires for interfacing with the power switch, 3-way solenoid valve, and pump. 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/239153554-60702e5b-7fcc-45bc-99a2-07b615da3e5d.png">

# Final Steps

To connect the ST-Link to the Blackpill (for flashing without opening the housing or machine) this is one of the few times in the project where DuPont connectors may be used. Another option is to solder the wires directly to the Blackpill. 

?> If you wish to power the system through the 120 VAC PSU (powering on the espresso machine) to flash the Blackpill then do **not** connect 3.3V to the ST-Link unless you're sure you do not have a knock-off/clone ST-Link.

Close the housing with 4 screws to complete. 

Optional wiring that is not pictured:
- HW Scales
- ToFnLED

**Continue the install by referencing the 3PLN machine-specific schematics and/or install instructions that apply to your desired build path:**
* [3PLN Stock Wiring Integration](guides-stm32/3pln-stock-wiring-integration.md) page.
* [3PLN Custom Wiring](guides-stm32/3pln-custom-wiring.md) page.

Commit message:

note to distinguish stock integration from custom wiring in component build instructions, clarify compatibility table and add espressio-nl to supplier note, add note about flashing forced-predictive if not using hardware scales

docs/guides-stm32/lego-component-build-guide.md, after:

> [!Warning|style:callout]
> Please understand that modifying your coffee machine involves working with potentially lethal mains level voltage. Do not undertake this project if this makes you uncomfortable. Understanding & utilizing safe electrical practices is critical to your safety and safely completing this project. Only start working on your machine while it's completely disconnected from the mains power socket. By agreeing to follow the below guide, you agree that the authors cannot be deemed responsible for any of the damage you induce to your house appliances, yourself, your cat, your friend, or your gold fish. It will be entirely your fault!

This is a guide on how to assemble the Gaggiuino component build into the 3D printed housing.

## General Install Info

<details>
<summary><b>Component prep</b> <i>(Click to expand)</i></summary>

It is recommended to remove pins on the dimmer and thermocouple interface boards for the smallest, best connection. If you’d prefer to not do this in later steps you can solder wires to the pins and heat shrink over them.
An easy way to remove header pins is to cut the plastic linkage between each pin with snips, then de-solder the pins individually. Solder wick or a solder sucker can help get the through holes nice and clean.

<img height="150" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652146-fc29d237-0d93-42c4-861e-bc928f1411e9.png">

<img height="150" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652214-fc0e0670-4cf7-4ad2-9bcc-ea8c3f1cf3a4.png">

<img height="150" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652260-bdcd3e94-a3c6-4831-bf13-34b99d6514b2.png">

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Soldering</b> <i>(Click to expand)</i></summary>

?> Additional information can be found in [Soldering Recommendations](/learning/learning-sources.md#soldering)

**Expansion Board Soldering** 

If necessary, solder female headers and screw terminals to the nano expansion board. Make sure the headers and terminals are flush to the board. 

Bad:

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652382-dff7fc6f-ac02-494a-a506-9d4a22fbb792.png">

Acceptable:

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652433-0c49b699-9370-4639-8b9a-b78eb15b1948.png">

**STM32 Soldering**
Solder header pins to the Blackpill. Make sure the plastic linkage is flush with the board when soldering, and make sure all solder joints are properly reflowed. 

Bad:

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652496-980a3551-d6f9-44b4-91f7-3b5944996c51.png">

Acceptable:

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652544-adf88443-8a51-4836-80ee-97c130007bf3.png">

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Screw Terminals and Crimping</b> <i>(Click to expand)</i></summary>

Crimp ferrules are not required within the housing, but are a good idea for non-soldered component connections such as to the screw terminals on the expansion board, dimmer, and snubber to avoid stray wires. Make sure they are small enough to go into the screw terminals – 22AWG is possible, but 24-26AWG is much easier to crimp and fit in the terminals. 

!>Do **not** tin (solder) wires that will be crimped or clamped into screw terminals.

**No Crimp Examples**
Bad (exposed wire):

<img width="275" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653168-26f72fb8-7998-4cea-bebf-a13f37bd55a1.png">

Bad (stray wire):

<img width="275" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653201-b4c2b2fb-56f5-4a80-b5f3-3e0ab329d52f.png">

Acceptable:

<img width="275" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653247-1101c113-21f4-4796-8fd0-8e62d65841a8.png">

**Crimp Examples**
Acceptable (shielded):

<img width="275" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653300-d95006c8-3f17-4a3a-8f0d-b682ec9a5066.png">

Acceptable (unshielded):

<img width="275" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653338-3e47c284-f51a-4ff8-b2f5-3f9db7a5b45a.png">

Make sure unshielded crimped wires are inserted into the terminal such that no bare metal is outside of the terminal housing (red wire: good, black wire: barely acceptable):

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653388-3bf48014-8de2-40b0-898a-e57918ff4925.png">

**Crimping Outside of the Housing**

6.3 mm spade connectors are used for integration (connecting the assembled housing to the espresso machine). Molex's [TBO-Quality Crimp Handbook](https://github.com/Loogl3/gaggiuino.github.io/files/11400156/tbo.quality.crimp.handbook.pdf) is an excellent resource. Sections 6 and 7 contain information that applies to most crimped connections.

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Expansion Board Compatibility </b> <i>(Click to expand)</i></summary>

Ensure your expansion board circuitry looks like the bottom left (green) and not the bottom right (blue). The bottom right (blue) will not work correctly with the standard pindefs (the two circled pins in yellow are marked `GND` on the reverse and are both connected to the ground plane and each other), so it is advised for most people to purchase the board from the BOM that looks like the green expansion board. 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2452284/204672901-ac1a89d9-cbf2-4367-9196-e1a74fbce7dd.png">

If you receive an expansion board with this connection between two pins it will have the same problem as the blue board (two sets of pins are connected to each other). This can be fixed by cutting the trace. 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2452284/208331321-cef4d700-b961-4725-9cf1-f99202f1785a.jpg">

If you receive an expansion board with a linked ground plane then you'll need to cut the plane in two (likely on both sides of the board). It is recommended to not cut through the screw holes as that may allow a screw to reconnect the planes. 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236353796-18f8c699-e251-4df1-bb13-56b204afd832.png">

</details>

>

# Fit Check
Perform a fit check in the housing of all your components. Make sure the lid closes with no interference.
Note: you can use strip board for power distribution (cut for 6x5 usable points), Wago connectors or soldering wires to each other (provided heat shrink is applied for cover) are also acceptable options.

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652610-4b63d97b-90fd-43b1-b37f-a71ad0523008.png">

>

# External Wire Lengths

You'll use these later on. The table is located by the schematic for ease of linking and jumping back and forth during the build.

!> Wire cut lengths to connect the housing components to the espresso machine were added by request and are the length for a typical install in a GC or GCP plus a small margin.  
**Verifying wire length in your machine is recommended.** 

Component                                      |Colors                  |Gauge|Length                        
-----------------------------------------------|------------------------|:---:|------------------------------
[Screen](#screen)                              |Black, Yellow, Blue, Red|22-26|400 mm *(600 mm if crimping JST)*
[SSR](#ssr)                                    |Black                   |22   |530 mm
[SSR](#ssr)                                    |Yellow                  |22   |450 mm
[Switches](#switches)                          |Black, Yellow, Blue     |22   |600 mm
*Switch Jumper*                                |*Black*                 |*22* |*50 mm (used during machine install)*
[PSU](#psu)                                    |Black, White            |22   |60 mm
[Snubber-Relay](#snubber-relay-and-dimmer)     |Black, Red              |22   |100 mm
[Relay-Dimmer](#snubber-relay-and-dimmer)      |Black                   |22   |50 mm
[Relay: NO (3)](#snubber-relay-and-dimmer)        |Red                     |22   |250 mm <sup>Note 1</sup>
[Dimmer: Out (P), N-In (N)](#snubber-relay-and-dimmer)|Red, White              |22   |250 mm <sup>Note 1</sup>
[Dimmer: L-In (L)](#snubber-relay-and-dimmer)     |Black                   |22   |600 mm <sup>Note 1</sup>

> [!Note|style:callout|label:Note 1|iconVisibility:visible]
> These lengths are for stock wiring integration.  
> For custom wiring these connections can wait or a short wire can be installed to make connecting to the 3PLN of the custom harness easier.
>

# Schematic
 
Trust the schematic if you’re confused on a step or there appears to be a difference between an image and the schematic. You can use 22-26AWG wires for LV wiring unless otherwise noted; see the schematic and table for permissible wire gauges.

<img width="800" alt="image" src="schematics/stm32-comp-build.png">

# LV Wiring

The next steps describe the process of wiring the components together. The guide will show the component power wiring first followed by the signal wiring, but it can be done in whatever order you like. 

## Power wiring 
If using a strip board it is recommended to use an arrangement like this with two rows of 5V and two rows of 5V GND (0 VDC). 
Have the wires from the PSU go in through from the top, then fold over underneath and solder to connect the 2 rails.

<img width="250" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652856-028d0570-1736-4715-b6be-a3efb7325813.png">

<img width="250" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211652920-b17579ce-f9d9-4be0-991a-668df15f95a4.png">

Measure distance to components in the housing, cut wires to length plus ~1 cm, then solder. 

!> Do not solder in the housing, it will melt. A “helping hand tool” or soldering vice is very helpful.

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653005-8bffe9c8-1967-461d-a163-9a130534e0d0.png">

>[!Note]
>Once power wiring is complete I recommend using a multimeter to check resistance between 5V and 5V GND (0 VDC) It should be extremely high or not readable. If you are getting a resistance reading under 10 kOhm it's likely you have a short (solder flux, solder pad, solder ball, wire whisker, etc.) that needs to be fixed.

Now that power wires have been added we’ll begin adding signal wires per the schematic. Just like with the power wires, measure length in the housing, then remove from housing to solder. A few notes:
1. Make sure to route the wires before measuring. There is not enough clearance for wires to go over the Blackpill, they must go around. 
2. Up to you whether you cut the pressure transducer cable shorter. Option to cut it down to about 12 in / 30 cm for my GC, but you may want it longer depending on your specific machine. 

Here’s a pic partway through the wiring process:

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653439-4aa95ae9-e234-406e-a38d-0b3cdf2a377a.png">

## ADS Board
Here are a few details on wiring the ADS

>[!Note]
> I wired power/ground first and ensured the ADDR wire was bent enough to have clearance to solder SCL and SDA connections later. You may want to solder SCL and SDA first.

Connect G to ADDR like this: 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653056-184db336-120e-49d9-95d9-84c5103c3227.png">

Wiring the pull-up 5V to A1, A2, and A3 is optional, but easy. Just make sure that you have extra wire length to push through, bend over, and solder as shown (upper left):

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53577819/211653104-486b571e-866d-4e5a-95c6-88f0271e25e3.png">

## Screen

[Measure and cut](#external-wire-lengths) wires for the screen connection. Cut the DuPont connectors off the JST-XH pigtail included with the screen, solder like colors, and cover with heat shrink so you end up with a 600 mm long screen cable. 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/235807077-38f3fe70-f784-47da-aab0-3d9dbfc4114c.png">

Make sure that the wire colors connecting to the screen line up with the schematic. If necessary, swap connector positions to correct. A small screwdriver can be used to release the tabs holding the pins in place. They can then be easily removed and swapped.

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/235808221-fdfc62a2-9d1f-44fa-b62b-ec041f7fc74f.png">

?> The pins will need to be removed from the connector to pass the wires through the back vent slot - ensuring the wire colors line up before testing makes that process much simpler.

Solder the power wires to the stripboard and connect the communication wires to the expansion board per the schematic.

## SSR

[Measure and cut](#external-wire-lengths) the wires for the SSR. Solder to the stripboard and connect to the expansion board per the schematic.  
Once you're done the assembly should look like this.

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236147555-e463242b-1aa4-4639-8efb-f789e5074b9b.png">

## Switches

[Measure and cut](#external-wire-lengths) the wires for the switch connections. Solder to the stripboard and connect to the expansion board per the schematic.  
Once you're done the assembly should look like this.

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236129109-bfbb6880-8942-4009-a386-3d2be94ca1c1.png">

# Programming/Flashing

!> Do not flash the Blackpill while powering the system over USB-C.  

Flash the Blackpill using the ST-Link (connect SWDIO, GND, SWCLK, and 3.3V* - see [Prerequisites](prereq/prerequisites.md) for details). 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/235833233-5d8d99d3-665a-40d2-b215-489295c49480.png">

Flash the Nextion with the applicable nextion-*-lcd.tft on an otherwise-empty ≤32 GB FAT32 microSD card.  

Power for flashing the Nextion may be provided through the USB-C port on the Blackpill so long as you are using a USB power adapter that will supply 4.6-5.2 VDC (don't use a battery bank or PC USB 2.0 ports for power).  

?> More stable voltage can be provided by using the 120 VAC PSU and piggybacking off of the Gaggia power switch ([example here](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/235836724-71394491-c47a-46ed-920b-79ced184cc16.png)), however this is unnecessary for flashing and testing at this point so long as the voltage provided through the USB-C port is in range.  
*If you wish to power the system through the 120 VAC PSU to flash the Blackpill then do **not** connect 3.3V to the ST-Link unless you're sure you do not have a knock-off/clone ST-Link.

Wait for the Nextion to show the "Update Successed! (sic)" message, turn off power, and then remove the microSD card.

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236127637-fb83e05e-06d0-4a2f-b6e8-cdf48a36a077.png">

# Component test

>[!Tip]
>The system will not initialize if the ToFnLED board was enabled in the software but isn't plugged in

Make sure the Blackpill, thermocouple, pressure transducer, screen, SSR, switch wires, and ToFnLED if defined are connected and power on the system once again. If all is successful you should:
- see a build number during boot (good Blackpill-Nextion communication)
- hear the relay click for boiler fill
- see a temperature reading on the screen that changes when heat is applied to the thermocouple
- see the SSR light turn on if the temperature is below the setpoint (it will flash if temp is close to setpoint)
- see a pressure value of 0.0 bar with no deviation
- *not* see the steam temp as the target (if you do then there's a short to ground, likely through the expansion board)

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236076956-36ab8d35-6b5d-476e-84d2-d2e5097fafb1.png">

>

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236077124-e318b230-908e-4715-8810-a819f260c04f.png">

Recommendation: zip-tie the cable strain relief at this point so the risk of stressing the connections in the housing is reduced. 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236130002-977f47b6-c742-4f66-b240-15cbd5664a7d.png">

>

# HV Wiring

?>The images in this section have the LV wire connections moved out of the shot and the thermocouple disconnected for a cleaner view of the HV wiring.

## PSU

[Measure and cut](#external-wire-lengths) the wires for the PSU and solder to the AC in landings. It is helpful for wire routing to have the black wire closer to the snubber and white wire closer to the outside because you'll be connecting it to the snubber as seen below, but "polarity" technically doesn't matter. This is the last bit of soldering for the housing!

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/238552129-b682bc54-3855-48ba-af14-d60d4adca361.png">

## Snubber, Relay, and Dimmer

[Measure and cut](#external-wire-lengths) the wires for the snubber-relay, relay-dimmer, relay, and dimmer connections. 
As shown above, the snubber wires get routed in the channel under the PSU. Here is the full set of housing HV wires for interfacing with the power switch, 3-way solenoid valve, and pump (lengths shown are for integrating with stock wiring). 

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/239153554-60702e5b-7fcc-45bc-99a2-07b615da3e5d.png">

# Final Steps

To connect the ST-Link to the Blackpill (for flashing without opening the housing or machine) this is one of the few times in the project where DuPont connectors may be used. Another option is to solder the wires directly to the Blackpill. 

?> If you wish to power the system through the 120 VAC PSU (powering on the espresso machine) to flash the Blackpill then do only connect 3.3V to the ST-Link if you have a genuine ST-Link or WeAct Mini Debugger.

Close the housing with 4 screws to complete. 

Optional wiring that is not pictured:
- [HW Scales](accessories/hw-scales.md)
- [ToFnLED](accessories/tofnled.md)

**Continue the install by referencing the 3PLN machine-specific schematics and/or install instructions that apply to your desired build path:**
* [3PLN Stock Wiring Integration](guides-stm32/3pln-stock-wiring-integration.md) page.
* [3PLN Custom Wiring](guides-stm32/3pln-custom-wiring.md) page.
