docs/guides-stm32/mcu-flashing.md, before:

# MCU Flashing

## Software Prerequisites:
<!-- tabs:start -->
<!-- tab:Gen 3 -->
For wired flashing - required for BlackPill-based PCBs (PCBv2, PCBv3) and PCBv3.1:  
* [STM32 Cube Programmer](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubeprog.html) *(Email signup required)*

<!-- tab:Gen 2 -->
1. Install/Update [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
2. Install/Update [Platform IO](https://platformio.org/) 
3. Install [Git](https://www.git-scm.com/)
4. Install [STM32 Cube Programmer](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubeprog.html) *(Email signup required)*

Then pull the code as shown in the below video:
<details>
<summary>Setup project using PIO <i>(Click to expand)</i></summary>

[Platform IO](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109426580/193900425-15c42d9c-adf4-4073-aa46-34874528bf43.mp4 ':include :type=video controls width=70%')
</details>

Make sure to switch to the necessary [release branch](#Releases) once pulled, depending on the target platform (nano or STM32). For STM32 the recommended upload method is by using a physical ST-Link or WeAct Mini Debugger.
<!-- tabs:end -->

# Releases

<!-- tabs:start -->
<!-- tab:Gen 3 -->

> [!Warning|style:callout|label:Warning|iconVisibility:visible]
> __1. Gaggiuino Gen 3 (NextMonday&trade;) is *NOT* compatible with Nextion screens.__  
> __2. Failing to flash the correct binary for your hardware will yield unexpected results.__   
> __3. Make sure the microcontroller and screen unit are in sync.__  

Released binary (.bin) files are on the [Gaggiuino Github Release (Latest)](https://github.com/Zer0-bit/gaggiuino/releases/latest) page. Files selection depends on your system hardware.
  * Core (STM32): 1 file, named in format *MCU - Build Type - LED Controller .bin* per hardware (see table below).  
    |Title | Name | Hardware |
    |:--:|:--:|:--|
    |**MCU**            | performance <br/> -           | STM32**U585**CIU6 (PCBv4, fuPill) <br/> STM32**F411**CEU6 (PCBv3.1, BlackPill)|
    |**Build Type**     | pcb <br/> lego                | PCBv2 - PCBv4 <br/> Component build |
    |**LED Controller <sup>[1]</sup>** | pca <br/> ncp  | PCA9632 <br/> NCP5623 |
    <details>
    <summary><b>[1] See this for help identifying your LED controller - most are PCA </b><i>(Click to expand)</i></summary>

    <img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/274979976-ae9f02ab-8c61-438e-81ea-adfabdff183b.png">

    </details>  
  
  * UI (ESP32)
    * Screen: *ui-embedded.bin* and *ui-web.bin*  
    * Headless: *ui-headless.bin* and *ui-web.bin* 

> [!Note|style:callout|label:Note - Extra Defines Eliminated] 
> * Those without an LED module can use either ncp or pca firmware as ToF presence/absence and LED absence are recognized automatically. 
> * Predictive, hardware, and Bluetooth scales are enabled/disabled via the UI  

<!-- tab:Gen 2 -->

> [!Warning|style:callout|label:Warning|iconVisibility:visible]
> __1. Gaggiuino Gen 2 (Nextion UI) is *NOT* compatible with PCBv4 / STM32U585CIU6.__  
> __2. Failing to run the right code branch on the chosen set of hardware will yield unexpected results.__   
> __3. Make sure the microcontroller and screen unit are in sync. When in doubt, flash both.__  

Files are at [release/stm32-blackpill](https://github.com/Zer0-bit/gaggiuino/tree/release/stm32-blackpill)

<!-- tabs:end -->
>

# Flashing
<!-- tabs:start -->
<!-- tab:Gen 3 -->
## Wired - STM32 / BlackPill

Make sure you have necessary [Software Prerequisites](#software-prerequisites) installed.

> [!Warning|style:callout|label:Warning|iconVisibility:visible]
> * BlackPill-based PCBs (PCBv2, PCBv3) and PCBv3.1 should be flashed using STM32CubeProgrammer with **machine power off** unless [PA15 pulldown functionality ](guides-upgrade/pcb-upgrade.md#pa15-pulldown-upgrade) has been verified. Otherwise, the boiler heaters may turn on while the STM32 is connected or flashing.  
> * If your ST-Link doesn't work with STM32CubeProgrammer try using the old [ST-Link utility](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stsw-link004.html)

1. Identify the core file to flash from [Releases](#Releases). 

2. Open STM32CubeProgrammer and in the **Erasing & programming** pane (A) browse to and select the *MCU - Build Type - LED Controller .bin* that corresponds to your system using the **File path** input (B).  
Make sure **Verify programming** is selected and **Skip flash erase before programming** is not selected.  

  <img width="500" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fee8093d-cabe-4158-bfdf-40ce2cc233a3">

3. If you haven't already done so, connect the PCB or BlackPill<sup>1</sup> to the WeAct Mini Debugger or ST-Link (connect 3.3V, SWDIO, SWCLK, and GND). Note that the pictures show *only* this connection for clarity.

  <img height="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/GAGGIUINO/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/58377fd5-49f2-47f2-98d6-7c800eb6e712">  

  <img height="300" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/262874364-c44f2eea-6a64-4731-adb8-a0c1a16089d6.png">

    <sup>1 *Pins should be on the back of the BlackPill for PCBv3 compatibility*</sup>  

4. Connect the WeAct Mini Debugger / ST-Link USB to the computer (the PCB or BlackPill USB-C port should **not** be connected).

5. In the STM32CubeProgrammer **Erasing & programming** pane click **Connect** (D). Once connected, click **Start Programming** (E).

  <img width="500" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/13df020c-9989-4ae9-ac7b-abaf5ce19d6c">

6. Acknowledge the success messages and click **Disconnect**. Once disconnected, unplug the WeAct Mini Debugger / ST-Link USB from the computer.

## OTA - ESP32, STM32U585

> [!Warning|style:callout|label:Warning|iconVisibility:visible]
> * ESP32 systems **must be enabled by official suppliers** to work with Gaggiuino Gen 3.  
> * Core OTA is compatible with STM32**U585** only (PCBv4 and systems with uPill or WeAct U585 Core Board). Sometimes the U585 may need to be flashed with STM32CubeProgrammer - this will be stated in the release notes if necessary. 

1. Identify the file(s) to flash from [Releases](#Releases).  

2. If your Gaggiuino is not on your local network, connect to Gaggiuino AP.  
The password is the network name with a zero substituted for the "o" and the space removed.

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/af24bb4e-1608-4b45-b78d-ccb7d15bec18">

3. Navigate to [gaggiuino.local](http://gaggiuino.local/)

4. Select the SETTINGS page and scroll down to the **OTA Update** section.

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0c7114ec-6e85-4894-bfc8-d779a8de38b5">

5. Select **Core Upgrade Package** for core (STM32U585) files, or **LCD Upgrade Package** for UI (ESP32) files. Click **SELECT FILE**, select the file to flash, then click **UPLOAD**.

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f70a4726-daa2-459b-aacc-4167444edf87">

> [!Note|style:callout|label:File Order|iconVisibility:visible]
> Flash files in the following order unless otherwise noted in the release notes:
> * *ui-embedded.bin* / *ui-headless.bin*
> * *ui-web.bin*
> * core file (per hardware)  

6. Wait for the upload, flash process, and reboot. The screen will be black during these operations. 

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ae9f802d-d9a1-4b26-a504-dbecb29cdab7">

7. After a successful upgrade, click **START OVER** and begin again from step 5 to flash additional files. 

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/faba0d3e-15fd-4324-a28f-f170c0950757">


> [!Note|style:callout|label:Notes|iconVisibility:visible]
> * Do not power down the system during an update. If an update fails or is cancelled before completion the system will automatically revert to the previous firmware.  
> * If OTA updates fail while connected to a network: disconnect Gaggiuino from the network and connect your device directly to Gaggiuino AP (step 2).
> * After a *ui-web.bin* update the browser may need to be refreshed to load new elements (if any). 

<!-- tab:Gen 2 -->
## STM32 / BlackPill
  
Make sure you have necessary [Software Prerequisites](#software-prerequisites) installed, and any applicable extra defines entered and saved in `extra_defines.ini` before starting. Do not have STM32 Cube Programmer open if uploading via VS Code.

>[!Tip]
>extra_defines.ini is used for accessories and other special functions. You do not need one for the base install.

1. Select the environment based on the upload method:
    - **Lego** if you have individual components, **PCB** if you have one.
    - **forced-predictive** if you don't have hardware scales
    - **STlink** if you are using an ST-Link or the WeAct Mini Debugger, **DFU** if not (deprecated).
2. Click "Build" in VSCode (PlatformIO tab)

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/Loogl3/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/0ba13397-65b5-4b8f-b528-c41bf547266f">

3. Connect the PCBv3.1 or BlackPill<sup>1</sup> to the WeAct Mini Debugger or ST-Link (connect 3.3V<sup>2</sup>, SWDIO, SWCLK, and GND)
  <img height="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/GAGGIUINO/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/58377fd5-49f2-47f2-98d6-7c800eb6e712">  

  <img height="300" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/262874364-c44f2eea-6a64-4731-adb8-a0c1a16089d6.png">

4. Make sure the BlackPill/PCBv3.1 USB-C is **not** connected to anything
5. Connect ST-Link/WeAct Mini Debugger USB to the computer
6. Click Upload in VS Code (PlatformIO tab)
7. Wait until you see green/success logs

> [!Note|style:callout]
> *1 Pins should be on the back of the BlackPill for PCBv3 compatibility*  
> *2 Some ST-Links may have issues if 3.3V is connected and the system is powered through the 120/220 VAC PSU when flashing. If unsure about your ST-Link, only connect 3.3V if you'll turn off or disconnect AC power before flashing.*

## Nextion/TJC display

Flashing instructions:
1. On an otherwise-empty ≤32 GB FAT32 microSD card, copy the applicable *Brand*-*Type*-lcd.tft  
    - Brand: nextion or tjc  
    - Type: basic or discovery (Nextion Orange PCB)  

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/Loogl3/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/161ef925-94d1-4ae4-a332-8dd761b0c009">

  > [!Tip|label:Scales Calibration Files|style:callout]
  > Display files for scales calibration are in the "scales-calibration" folder
  
2. While **powered off**, put the microSD card in the display
3. Power on the display. When not installed in the machine, power for flashing may be provided through the USB-C port on the Blackpill/PCB. Use a USB power adapter rated for 5 VDC and 500+ mA.  
> [!Note|style:callout]
> Make sure the ST-Link is disconnected. Don't use it, a battery bank, or PC USB ports for power).  
4. Wait for the display to show the "Update Successed! (sic)" message, turn off power, and then remove the microSD card.
<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

Change recommended flash order (to core > embed > web), add note about breaking update 616ea70, remove 32 GB microSD ref from BOM

docs/guides-stm32/mcu-flashing.md, after:

# MCU Flashing

## Software Prerequisites:
<!-- tabs:start -->
<!-- tab:Gen 3 -->
For wired flashing - required for BlackPill-based PCBs (PCBv2, PCBv3) and PCBv3.1:  
* [STM32 Cube Programmer](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubeprog.html) *(Email signup required)*

<!-- tab:Gen 2 -->
1. Install/Update [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
2. Install/Update [Platform IO](https://platformio.org/) 
3. Install [Git](https://www.git-scm.com/)
4. Install [STM32 Cube Programmer](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubeprog.html) *(Email signup required)*

Then pull the code as shown in the below video:
<details>
<summary>Setup project using PIO <i>(Click to expand)</i></summary>

[Platform IO](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109426580/193900425-15c42d9c-adf4-4073-aa46-34874528bf43.mp4 ':include :type=video controls width=70%')
</details>

Make sure to switch to the necessary [release branch](#Releases) once pulled, depending on the target platform (nano or STM32). For STM32 the recommended upload method is by using a physical ST-Link or WeAct Mini Debugger.
<!-- tabs:end -->

# Releases

<!-- tabs:start -->
<!-- tab:Gen 3 -->

> [!Warning|style:callout|label:Warning|iconVisibility:visible]
> __1. Gaggiuino Gen 3 (NextMonday&trade;) is *NOT* compatible with Nextion screens.__  
> __2. Failing to flash the correct binary for your hardware will yield unexpected results.__   
> __3. Make sure the microcontroller and screen unit are in sync.__  
> __4. If upgrading a pre-2025-02-16 build, flash [breaking update 616ea70](https://github.com/Zer0-bit/gaggiuino/releases/tag/dev-616ea70) before flashing latest.__ 

Released binary (.bin) files are on the [Gaggiuino Github Release (Latest)](https://github.com/Zer0-bit/gaggiuino/releases/latest) page. Files selection depends on your system hardware.
  * Core (STM32): 1 file, named in format *MCU - Build Type - LED Controller .bin* per hardware (see table below).  
    |Title | Name | Hardware |
    |:--:|:--:|:--|
    |**MCU**            | performance <br/> -           | STM32**U585**CIU6 (PCBv4, fuPill) <br/> STM32**F411**CEU6 (PCBv3.1, BlackPill)|
    |**Build Type**     | pcb <br/> lego                | PCBv2 - PCBv4 <br/> Component build |
    |**LED Controller <sup>[1]</sup>** | pca <br/> ncp  | PCA9632 <br/> NCP5623 |
    <details>
    <summary><b>[1] See this for help identifying your LED controller - most are PCA </b><i>(Click to expand)</i></summary>

    <img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/274979976-ae9f02ab-8c61-438e-81ea-adfabdff183b.png">

    </details>  
  
  * UI (ESP32)
    * Screen: *ui-embedded.bin* and *ui-web.bin*  
    * Headless: *ui-headless.bin* and *ui-web.bin* 

> [!Note|style:callout|label:Note - Extra Defines Eliminated] 
> * Those without an LED module can use either ncp or pca firmware as ToF presence/absence and LED absence are recognized automatically. 
> * Predictive, hardware, and Bluetooth scales are enabled/disabled via the UI  

<!-- tab:Gen 2 -->

> [!Warning|style:callout|label:Warning|iconVisibility:visible]
> __1. Gaggiuino Gen 2 (Nextion UI) is *NOT* compatible with PCBv4 / STM32U585CIU6.__  
> __2. Failing to run the right code branch on the chosen set of hardware will yield unexpected results.__   
> __3. Make sure the microcontroller and screen unit are in sync. When in doubt, flash both.__  

Files are at [release/stm32-blackpill](https://github.com/Zer0-bit/gaggiuino/tree/release/stm32-blackpill)

<!-- tabs:end -->
>

# Flashing
<!-- tabs:start -->
<!-- tab:Gen 3 -->
## Wired - STM32 / BlackPill

Make sure you have necessary [Software Prerequisites](#software-prerequisites) installed.

> [!Warning|style:callout|label:Warning|iconVisibility:visible]
> * BlackPill-based PCBs (PCBv2, PCBv3) and PCBv3.1 should be flashed using STM32CubeProgrammer with **machine power off** unless [PA15 pulldown functionality ](guides-upgrade/pcb-upgrade.md#pa15-pulldown-upgrade) has been verified. Otherwise, the boiler heaters may turn on while the STM32 is connected or flashing.  
> * If your ST-Link doesn't work with STM32CubeProgrammer try using the old [ST-Link utility](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stsw-link004.html)

1. Identify the core file to flash from [Releases](#Releases). 

2. Open STM32CubeProgrammer and in the **Erasing & programming** pane (A) browse to and select the *MCU - Build Type - LED Controller .bin* that corresponds to your system using the **File path** input (B).  
Make sure **Verify programming** is selected and **Skip flash erase before programming** is not selected.  

  <img width="500" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fee8093d-cabe-4158-bfdf-40ce2cc233a3">

3. If you haven't already done so, connect the PCB or BlackPill<sup>1</sup> to the WeAct Mini Debugger or ST-Link (connect 3.3V, SWDIO, SWCLK, and GND). Note that the pictures show *only* this connection for clarity.

  <img height="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/GAGGIUINO/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/58377fd5-49f2-47f2-98d6-7c800eb6e712">  

  <img height="300" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/262874364-c44f2eea-6a64-4731-adb8-a0c1a16089d6.png">

    <sup>1 *Pins should be on the back of the BlackPill for PCBv3 compatibility*</sup>  

4. Connect the WeAct Mini Debugger / ST-Link USB to the computer (the PCB or BlackPill USB-C port should **not** be connected).

5. In the STM32CubeProgrammer **Erasing & programming** pane click **Connect** (D). Once connected, click **Start Programming** (E).

  <img width="500" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/13df020c-9989-4ae9-ac7b-abaf5ce19d6c">

6. Acknowledge the success messages and click **Disconnect**. Once disconnected, unplug the WeAct Mini Debugger / ST-Link USB from the computer.

## OTA - ESP32, STM32U585

> [!Warning|style:callout|label:Warning|iconVisibility:visible]
> * ESP32 systems **must be enabled by official suppliers** to work with Gaggiuino Gen 3.  
> * Core OTA is compatible with STM32**U585** only (PCBv4 and systems with uPill or WeAct U585 Core Board). If breaking updates are flashed in the wrong order the U585 may need to be flashed with STM32CubeProgrammer. 

1. Identify the file(s) to flash from [Releases](#Releases).  

2. If your Gaggiuino is not on your local network, connect to Gaggiuino AP.  
The password is the network name with a zero substituted for the "o" and the space removed.

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/af24bb4e-1608-4b45-b78d-ccb7d15bec18">

3. Navigate to [gaggiuino.local](http://gaggiuino.local/)

4. Select the SETTINGS page and scroll down to the **OTA Update** section.

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0c7114ec-6e85-4894-bfc8-d779a8de38b5">

5. Select **Core Upgrade Package** for core (STM32U585) files, or **LCD Upgrade Package** for UI (ESP32) files. Click **SELECT FILE**, select the file to flash, then click **UPLOAD**.

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f70a4726-daa2-459b-aacc-4167444edf87">

> [!Note|style:callout|label:File Order|iconVisibility:visible]
> Flash files in the following order unless otherwise noted in the release notes:
> * core file (per hardware)
> * *ui-embedded.bin* / *ui-headless.bin*
> * *ui-web.bin*

6. Wait for the upload, flash process, and reboot. The screen will be black during these operations. 

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ae9f802d-d9a1-4b26-a504-dbecb29cdab7">

7. After a successful upgrade, click **START OVER** and begin again from step 5 to flash additional files. 

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/faba0d3e-15fd-4324-a28f-f170c0950757">


> [!Note|style:callout|label:Notes|iconVisibility:visible]
> * Do not power down the system during an update. If an update fails or is cancelled before completion the system will automatically revert to the previous firmware.  
> * If OTA updates fail while connected to a network: disconnect Gaggiuino from the network and connect your device directly to Gaggiuino AP (step 2).
> * After a *ui-web.bin* update the browser may need to be refreshed to load new elements (if any). 

<!-- tab:Gen 2 -->
## STM32 / BlackPill
  
Make sure you have necessary [Software Prerequisites](#software-prerequisites) installed, and any applicable extra defines entered and saved in `extra_defines.ini` before starting. Do not have STM32 Cube Programmer open if uploading via VS Code.

>[!Tip]
>extra_defines.ini is used for accessories and other special functions. You do not need one for the base install.

1. Select the environment based on the upload method:
    - **Lego** if you have individual components, **PCB** if you have one.
    - **forced-predictive** if you don't have hardware scales
    - **STlink** if you are using an ST-Link or the WeAct Mini Debugger, **DFU** if not (deprecated).
2. Click "Build" in VSCode (PlatformIO tab)

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/Loogl3/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/0ba13397-65b5-4b8f-b528-c41bf547266f">

3. Connect the PCBv3.1 or BlackPill<sup>1</sup> to the WeAct Mini Debugger or ST-Link (connect 3.3V<sup>2</sup>, SWDIO, SWCLK, and GND)
  <img height="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/GAGGIUINO/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/58377fd5-49f2-47f2-98d6-7c800eb6e712">  

  <img height="300" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/262874364-c44f2eea-6a64-4731-adb8-a0c1a16089d6.png">

4. Make sure the BlackPill/PCBv3.1 USB-C is **not** connected to anything
5. Connect ST-Link/WeAct Mini Debugger USB to the computer
6. Click Upload in VS Code (PlatformIO tab)
7. Wait until you see green/success logs

> [!Note|style:callout]
> *1 Pins should be on the back of the BlackPill for PCBv3 compatibility*  
> *2 Some ST-Links may have issues if 3.3V is connected and the system is powered through the 120/220 VAC PSU when flashing. If unsure about your ST-Link, only connect 3.3V if you'll turn off or disconnect AC power before flashing.*

## Nextion/TJC display

Flashing instructions:
1. On an otherwise-empty ≤32 GB FAT32 microSD card, copy the applicable *Brand*-*Type*-lcd.tft  
    - Brand: nextion or tjc  
    - Type: basic or discovery (Nextion Orange PCB)  

  <img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/Loogl3/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/161ef925-94d1-4ae4-a332-8dd761b0c009">

  > [!Tip|label:Scales Calibration Files|style:callout]
  > Display files for scales calibration are in the "scales-calibration" folder
  
2. While **powered off**, put the microSD card in the display
3. Power on the display. When not installed in the machine, power for flashing may be provided through the USB-C port on the Blackpill/PCB. Use a USB power adapter rated for 5 VDC and 500+ mA.  
> [!Note|style:callout]
> Make sure the ST-Link is disconnected. Don't use it, a battery bank, or PC USB ports for power).  
4. Wait for the display to show the "Update Successed! (sic)" message, turn off power, and then remove the microSD card.
<!-- tabs:end -->
