docs/guides/machine-specific-guide.md, before:

# Power Switch Mod

> [!Note|style:callout|label:APPLICABLE MODELS|iconVisibility:visible]
> 230V (EU) Gaggia Classic Pro Eco and Evo models with an Eco PCB.

To comply with EU regulations, Gaggia Classic variants sold there include a PCB (Eco board) that turns the machine off after 20 minutes of inactivity. These machines also have a monostable (spring-return) switch that defaults to the "Off" position when not pressed. To make the machine bistable a spring must be removed.

Remove the switch from the machine. Gently push the side walls one at a time until the locking tabs (circled red) are released. Remove the 3rd spring, then reassemble. 

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://github.com/GAGGIUINO/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/3e99f5c4-f8e1-4413-b91b-2bf3890c3737">

> [!TIP|style:callout|label:Video Guide|iconVisibility:visible]
> 1:39 to 2:31 of this video shows how to remove the spring. The video *should* start and stop at those points, but be aware as the rest of it **does not** pertain to this mod. 
>
> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WNs3uSLA4Ts?start=99&end=151" title="Gaggia Classic Pro 9-Bar OPV Mod" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Combined Connector Insulation

> [!Note|style:callout|label:APPLICABLE MODELS|iconVisibility:visible]
> Gaggia Classic Evo Pro

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://github.com/GAGGIUINO/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/4c670b12-c555-4aab-91ad-5a9d8e9cec66">

Most Evo models have a combined shield block around the switch connectors. It is recommended to remove the connectors, insulate them separately, and then label prior to completing the mod. This is especially important if doing stock wiring integration because some connectors will be left in the machine disconnected. 

First, disconnect the connector block (it's easier to do if the switch or boiler is removed). To remove a connector from the block, insert a small screwdriver to depress the locking tab, then pull the connector from the rear. It is recommended to remove the connectors one at a time and insulate with self-fusing silicone tape or 6 mm silicone heat shrink tubing, labeling as you go. 

> [!TIP|style:callout|label:|iconVisibility:hidden]
> Oil-based permanent markers write well on silicone.

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://github.com/GAGGIUINO/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/83f63c3a-9919-4c99-b01e-34eacba4ff71">

> [!TIP|style:callout|label:Video Guide|iconVisibility:visible]
> This video (starting at 0:59) shows how to remove a connector from the combined housing. 
>
> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8DB7vQm0_38?start=59" title="Gaggia Classic Pro 9-Bar OPV Mod" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# 10-12 Bar OPV

> [!Note|style:callout|label:APPLICABLE MODELS|iconVisibility:visible]
> 120V (US) Gaggia Classic Evo Pro

Gaggia decided that the Evo would come with a 9 bar OPV in the US, likely due to the number of people there who changed out the spring in their Gaggia Classic Pro OPVs.  
Unfortunately, OPVs don't open all at once. For example, a 9 bar spring might initially open a bit at 8.2 bar, slightly increasing flow until fully open around 9 bar. When the OPV opens, water is diverted and Gaggiuino control can't determine if or when that happens. For this reason, the OPV should be set at least 1 bar above the highest desired shot pressure. Most people want to have 9 bar shot profiles available, so for Gaggiuino the OPV should be 10-12 bar.

There are two methods of achieving this: 
1. Purchase a 12 bar OPV spring and install  

    Sources: [Etsy (US)](https://www.etsy.com/listing/1556589768/12-bar-opv-spring-for-gaggia-classic-pro), [Shades of Coffee (UK)](https://www.shadesofcoffee.co.uk/115bar-opv-spring), and many more

2. Increase the 9 bar OPV spring force by pre-loading it with 3-4 M3 washers

    Sources: [Home Depot (US)](https://www.homedepot.com/p/Everbilt-3-mm-Stainless-Steel-Metric-Flat-Washer-4-Piece-842358/204994885)  
    Washer Specifications: 300 series stainless steel, M3 (6.9-7.1 mm outer diameter, 3.0-3.6 mm inner diameter, 0.5-0.8 mm thick)  
    Starting quantity: If washers are 0.5 mm thick, use 4. If 0.8 mm thick, use 3.  
    <img width="600" alt="image" src="https://github.com/GAGGIUINO/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/69a9cfbf-e2bc-4868-9f57-f510457fa61b">

    The OPV pressure can be tested (and the number of washers adjusted if necessary) after Gaggiuino installation is complete by inserting a blank basket portafilter and doing one of the following:  
    a. Run a shot set to a 12+ bar target and verify it reaches 10-12 bar  
    b. Run a manual shot set at max flow and verify it reaches 10-12 bar


> [!TIP|style:callout|label:Video Guide|iconVisibility:visible]
> Here is a quick video on how to access and change the OPV in a Gaggia Classic Pro or Evo:
>
> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Kyjpe3SdSsE" title="Gaggia Classic Pro 9-Bar OPV Mod" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Grounding

> [!Note|style:callout|label:APPLICABLE MODELS|iconVisibility:visible]
> 120V (US) Gaggia Classic

Most US Gaggia Classics were sold with a 2P socket and are **ungrounded**. It is recommended that espresso machines be grounded and powered through a GFCI/AFCI/RCD device.

Grounding (also known as Earthing) provides an alternate path for current to flow into the ground in the event of an issue with the wiring system or introduction of a conductive medium (such as ionized water).  
Without a grounded housing, if the AC line came loose at some point and contacted the housing the machine may still work, but touching the metal housing would be the same as touching a live power socket. With a grounded housing, breaker, and ideally a GFCI/AFCI/RCD device, an AC wiring fault will trip the breaker or circuit interrupter before becoming a danger to people or the system.

> [!WARNING|style:callout|label:WARNING|iconVisibility:visible]
> Earth Ground is **not the same** as 5V GND (aka 0 V, " - ", or 5V COM). The DC system uses a "floating ground" for thermocouple compatibility. Do not connect the two.

### Bill of Materials

?> As these are US-specific components, many cannot be found on AliExpress or may be no cheaper there than purchasing from Amazon, Digi-Key, Mouser, etc.  
Links are provided, but feel free to shop around.

* C14 3P Panel-Mount Socket for 1.2-1.5 mm panel thickness *(choose **one** that's in-stock)*
    * Schurter [6100.4312](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/schurter-inc/6100-4312/640562) (Digi-Key)
    * Schurter [6100.4315](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/schurter-inc./6100.4315/569906) (Digi-Key)
* 5-15P to C13 Right-Angle Power Cord, 14-16 gauge *(choose **one** that's in-stock)*
    * Qualtek [313010-01](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/qualtek/313010-01/183386)
    * Assmann [A-PC2304-020027-1](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/assmann-wsw-components/A-PC2304-020027-1/3135012)
* 0.4+ m Heat-Resistant Silicone Wire, 16-18 gauge
    * [Green, 18AWG 1m](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/2255800441309579.html)
* *4x 6.3 mm female spade connectors (use spares from main BOM)*

>

### Instructions

#### Replace Socket

Remove wires. Make a note of where they started, but also check the schematic. On a number of machines L and N are switched. This doesn't make a difference for stock operation, but it might for Gaggiuino depending on if/how you integrate into the stock wiring harness.

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236963585-40bd561b-2375-4878-adfa-3e8ca4631554.png">

Use wide-jaw or channellock type pliers to squeeze the retaining tabs (shown below) and push on the plug. Alternate between top and bottom pair of retaining tabs with a bit of a wiggle and it should pop out fairly easily.

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236964221-30e21582-5bd8-422b-88eb-d9cb27d7ee52.png">

Install the new socket by pushing into place and making sure all locking tabs are seated

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236964636-bf53e5ef-53aa-4f0c-ba69-a9c23222c644.png">

>

#### Add Grounding Wires

> [!TIP|style:callout|label:TIP|iconVisibility:visible]
> These instructions are for stock wiring integration. If following the custom wiring schematic you can use the ground connections noted there.

Cut two lengths of ~200 mm wire to go from socket to boiler fuse clip / ground connector and from there to the warming plate connector. Crimp on spade connectors

!> Insulation on pre-insulated spade connectors attached to the boiler will melt. Use un-insulated spade connectors or remove insulation.

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236979713-6508871f-8405-4e0c-b4ed-e7ab59904ad6.png">

Attach the Line, Neutral, and Ground (noted) wires. 

?>Per the Gaggia Classic 120V 2009 schematic, Neutral (Blue) goes to the thermal fuse on top of the boiler and turns to Brown after passing thru the fuse. Line (Gray) goes to the top of the power switch. Colors may change depending on model and time of manufacture.

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/237005812-6b360577-e91f-4ba1-a1ca-83480e9c50cf.png">

Grounding is complete!

Commit message:

Changes per realNiche review - rename functions guide to user manual and change links, change language slightly in machine-specific guide. Moved the PCB guide to the stm32 guide folder to clean things up a bit and changed links.

docs/guides/machine-specific-guide.md, after:

# Power Switch Mod

> [!Note|style:callout|label:APPLICABLE MODELS|iconVisibility:visible]
> 230V (EU) Gaggia Classic Pro Eco and Evo models with an Eco PCB.

A Gaggia Classic with Gaggiuino typically takes 10-15 minutes to reach thermal equilibrium. However, in adherence to EU regulations, Gaggia Classic models available in the region are equipped with a PCB (Eco board) designed to power off the machine after 20 minutes of idle operation. These machines also have a monostable (spring-return) switch that defaults to the "Off" position when not pressed. To make the switch bistable a spring must be removed.

Remove the switch from the machine. Use a thin pry tool to gently push the side walls one at a time until the locking tabs (circled red) are released. Remove the 3rd spring, then reassemble. 

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://github.com/GAGGIUINO/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/3e99f5c4-f8e1-4413-b91b-2bf3890c3737">

> [!TIP|style:callout|label:Video Guide|iconVisibility:visible]
> 1:39 to 2:31 of this video shows how to remove the spring. The video *should* start and stop at those points, but be aware as the rest of it **does not** pertain to this mod. 
>
> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WNs3uSLA4Ts?start=99&end=151" title="Gaggia Classic Pro 9-Bar OPV Mod" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Combined Connector Insulation

> [!Note|style:callout|label:APPLICABLE MODELS|iconVisibility:visible]
> Gaggia Classic Evo Pro

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://github.com/GAGGIUINO/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/4c670b12-c555-4aab-91ad-5a9d8e9cec66">

Most Evo models have a combined shield block around the switch connectors. It is recommended to remove the connectors, insulate them separately, and then label prior to completing the mod. This is especially important if doing stock wiring integration because some connectors will be left in the machine disconnected. 

First, disconnect the connector block (it's easier to do if the switch or boiler is removed). To remove a connector from the block, insert a small screwdriver to depress the locking tab, then pull the connector from the rear. It is recommended to remove the connectors one at a time and insulate with self-fusing silicone tape or 6 mm silicone heat shrink tubing, labeling as you go. 

> [!TIP|style:callout|label:|iconVisibility:hidden]
> Oil-based permanent markers write well on silicone.

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://github.com/GAGGIUINO/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/83f63c3a-9919-4c99-b01e-34eacba4ff71">

> [!TIP|style:callout|label:Video Guide|iconVisibility:visible]
> This video (starting at 0:59) shows how to remove a connector from the combined housing. 
>
> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8DB7vQm0_38?start=59" title="Gaggia Classic Pro 9-Bar OPV Mod" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# 10-12 Bar OPV

> [!Note|style:callout|label:APPLICABLE MODELS|iconVisibility:visible]
> 120V (US) Gaggia Classic Evo Pro

Gaggia decided that the Evo would come with a 9 bar OPV in the US, likely due to the number of people there who changed out the spring in their Gaggia Classic Pro OPVs.  
Unfortunately, OPVs don't open all at once. For example, a 9 bar spring might initially open a bit at 8.2 bar, slightly increasing flow until fully open around 9 bar. When the OPV opens, water is diverted and Gaggiuino control can't determine if or when that happens. For this reason, the OPV should be set at least 1 bar above the highest desired shot pressure. Most people want to have 9 bar shot profiles available, so for Gaggiuino the OPV should be 10-12 bar.

There are two methods of achieving this: 
1. Purchase a 12 bar OPV spring and install  

    Sources: [Etsy (US)](https://www.etsy.com/listing/1556589768/12-bar-opv-spring-for-gaggia-classic-pro), [Shades of Coffee (UK)](https://www.shadesofcoffee.co.uk/115bar-opv-spring), and many more

2. Increase the 9 bar OPV spring force by pre-loading it with 3-4 M3 washers

    Sources: [Home Depot (US)](https://www.homedepot.com/p/Everbilt-3-mm-Stainless-Steel-Metric-Flat-Washer-4-Piece-842358/204994885)  
    Washer Specifications: 300 series stainless steel, M3 (6.9-7.1 mm outer diameter, 3.0-3.6 mm inner diameter, 0.5-0.8 mm thick)  
    Starting quantity: If washers are 0.5 mm thick, use 4. If 0.8 mm thick, use 3.  
    <img width="600" alt="image" src="https://github.com/GAGGIUINO/gaggiuino.github.io/assets/117388662/69a9cfbf-e2bc-4868-9f57-f510457fa61b">

    The OPV pressure can be tested (and the number of washers adjusted if necessary) after Gaggiuino installation is complete by inserting a blank basket portafilter and doing one of the following:  
    a. Run a shot set to a 12+ bar target and verify it reaches 10-12 bar  
    b. Run a manual shot set at max flow and verify it reaches 10-12 bar


> [!TIP|style:callout|label:Video Guide|iconVisibility:visible]
> Here is a quick video on how to access and change the OPV in a Gaggia Classic Pro or Evo:
>
> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Kyjpe3SdSsE" title="Gaggia Classic Pro 9-Bar OPV Mod" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# Grounding

> [!Note|style:callout|label:APPLICABLE MODELS|iconVisibility:visible]
> 120V (US) Gaggia Classic

Most US Gaggia Classics were sold with a 2P socket and are **ungrounded**. It is recommended that espresso machines be grounded and powered through a GFCI/AFCI/RCD device.

Grounding, also referred to as Earthing, offers an alternative route for electrical current to dissipate into the ground should there be a wiring system malfunction or the introduction of a conductive substance, such as ionized water.  
Without a grounded housing, if the AC line came loose and contacted the housing the machine may still work, but touching the metal housing would be the same as touching a live power socket. With a grounded housing, breaker, and ideally a GFCI/AFCI/RCD device, an AC wiring fault will trip the breaker or circuit interrupter before becoming a danger to the user or the system.

> [!WARNING|style:callout|label:WARNING|iconVisibility:visible]
> Earth Ground is **not the same** as 5V GND (aka 0 V, " - ", or 5V COM). The DC system uses a "floating ground" for thermocouple compatibility. Do not connect the two.

### Bill of Materials

?> As these are US-specific components, many cannot be found on AliExpress or may be no cheaper there than purchasing from Amazon, Digi-Key, Mouser, etc.  
Links are provided, but feel free to shop around.

* C14 3P Panel-Mount Socket for 1.2-1.5 mm panel thickness *(choose **one** that's in-stock)*
    * Schurter [6100.4312](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/schurter-inc/6100-4312/640562) (Digi-Key)
    * Schurter [6100.4315](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/schurter-inc./6100.4315/569906) (Digi-Key)
* 5-15P to C13 Right-Angle Power Cord, 14-16 gauge *(choose **one** that's in-stock)*
    * Qualtek [313010-01](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/qualtek/313010-01/183386)
    * Assmann [A-PC2304-020027-1](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/assmann-wsw-components/A-PC2304-020027-1/3135012)
* 0.4+ m Heat-Resistant Silicone Wire, 16-18 gauge
    * [Green, 18AWG 1m](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/2255800441309579.html)
* *4x 6.3 mm female spade connectors (use spares from main BOM)*

>

### Instructions

#### Replace Socket

Remove wires. Make a note of where they started, but also check the schematic. On a number of machines L and N are switched. This doesn't make a difference for stock operation, but it might for Gaggiuino depending on if/how you integrate into the stock wiring harness.

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236963585-40bd561b-2375-4878-adfa-3e8ca4631554.png">

Use wide-jaw or channellock type pliers to squeeze the retaining tabs (shown below) and push on the plug. Alternate between top and bottom pair of retaining tabs with a bit of a wiggle and it should pop out fairly easily.

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236964221-30e21582-5bd8-422b-88eb-d9cb27d7ee52.png">

Install the new socket by pushing into place and making sure all locking tabs are seated

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236964636-bf53e5ef-53aa-4f0c-ba69-a9c23222c644.png">

>

#### Add Grounding Wires

> [!TIP|style:callout|label:TIP|iconVisibility:visible]
> These instructions are for stock wiring integration. If following the custom wiring schematic you can use the ground connections noted there.

Cut two lengths of ~200 mm wire to go from socket to boiler fuse clip / ground connector and from there to the warming plate connector. Crimp on spade connectors

!> Insulation on pre-insulated spade connectors attached to the boiler will melt. Use un-insulated spade connectors or remove insulation.

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/236979713-6508871f-8405-4e0c-b4ed-e7ab59904ad6.png">

Attach the Line, Neutral, and Ground (noted) wires. 

?>Per the Gaggia Classic 120V 2009 schematic, Neutral (Blue) goes to the thermal fuse on top of the boiler and turns to Brown after passing thru the fuse. Line (Gray) goes to the top of the power switch. Colors may change depending on model and time of manufacture.

<img width="600" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117388662/237005812-6b360577-e91f-4ba1-a1ca-83480e9c50cf.png">

Grounding is complete!
